# debtNote: Managing expenses made easy!

debtNote is an expense tracking and budgeting application which allows its users to manage and keep track of their personal expenses, splitting bills for shared transactions between other users, set budgets and analyze their monthly expenditures. 
 
The application is primarily designed for people who share expenses with their friends, roommates and acquaintances on regular basis and struggle with keeping track of their expenses. After creating an account, for personal expenses users can simply add/modify a transaction with a description, amount and category. Users can set their monthly budgets to get notified if they exceed a certain limit. To better analyze monthly expenses, they can generate monthly reports which will reflect their expenditures per category and spending patterns as a graph.
 
In addition to personal expenses, users will also be able to add friends and create groups. For shared transactions, the application will allow users to add transactions and split them equally or unequally (based on % shares or proportions or exact amounts) with their friends. Users will be able to see how much they owe or how much are they owed by other individual users, as well as a total balance of amount owing vs. amount being owed. If a transaction is added or modified, all the users involving that will be notified and their accounts will be updated accordingly. Regular expenses like monthly rents or internet bills can also be set with a group of users and a frequency, to automatically update user accounts at a desired interval. Users can send payment requests to their friends.
 
The key value of our application is simplicity and usefulness. Most people struggle with managing their expenses on daily basis. The most common solutions for expense tracking people currently use include notes, spreadsheets or bank statements (which are not as useful for cash expenses). Regardless of how accurate they try to be, shared transactions are always a hassle to take care of. As there might not be any interconnectivity between two or more people’s shared expense tracking, it all leads to errors in calculations, unfair bill splits and sometimes even conflicts. Bringing everyone to one single platform can help minimize these problems and help everyone to pay exactly how much they should, neither less nor more.

The application is envisioned as a simple android application, but we would like to make it available for other platforms including iOS and web. Future versions can involve more features like multi-currency support and currency conversions, mobile wallet etc.

The success of the project will be determined by how accurately users can keep track of their expenses and how much more control  do they get because of the analysis tool. Statistical models can be used on sample groups to compare the difference between overall expenses of users before and after using debtNote. Feedback received from the sample groups will help us determine if people find debtNote useful, better and easier than traditional methods. It will also help us identify possible extensions and additional features for future versions.